In this video we'll dive into the custom post type that's built into the executive pro theme called
a plugin and you'll discover why that is.
And check out a powerful plugin for this.
By the end of this video you'll understand custom post types why you can and should use them for certain
Let's start by opening our second site we've been working with inside the student's sandbox and the
was I selected under dashboard my sites where you could click up here in the admin bar and I looked
clicked Save Changes that way when I log in.
It will always open the latest site.
The one that I've been working on you can go in and make that change in your own student's sandbox area
if you like.
And as we experimented with and checked out in the last video let's look at this portfolio section and
because we imported the executive pro SML file for sample content with these items and we've looked
If you remember in the demo under page templates there was a portfolio page sample and these each of
a portfolio page.
And that is a post type if we go and look back inside of the Wordpress dashboard we've got a certain
Another post type called pages built into Wordpress and now there's been a custom post type created
as a part of the executive pro-team called portfolio.
Now as we've learned the posts post type built into WordPress has two taxonomies associated with it
categories which is a hierarchical type of taxonomy as compared to tag's which is non hierarchical.
Basically it just means that Ketterer categories can have a hierarchy where there can be parent categories
so they're a non hierarchical type of taxonomy.
Inside the custom portfolio post type there is actually only one hierarchical taxonomy.
So it's just like categories but it's called types or portfolio types.
a second type in here called portrait's.
The archive is just the listing page of all portfolio items and there is a in an archive page template
built into the theme that displays all the portfolio items in a certain way.
It's called the portfolio archive.
And if you roll over the link here you can see the URL at the bottom left.
And if you just right click and open that in a new tab we've looked at this before the portfolio page
displays a full width page with three items across.
WordPress template built into the theme itself.
There's a few different fields built into the portfolio archive template that are editable and this
If I want a headline for my portfolio page this might just say portfolio items.
And then here would be a description and if we just save settings and take a look at the portfolio archive
we'll see where that archive headline and archive intro text appear.
I've just hit back and there it is.
So I can have an announcement at the top of all the portfolio items for its archive page if we go back
settings provided by the theme in this custom post type and taxonomy system where you can have an archive
headline and an archive intro text.
portfolio Desch type that is the builtin you are l and then you could put slash landscape's.
Now we've opened up all the portfolio items in the landscape category or the landscape portfolio type.
Here's the URL and I did place this information inside of the archive settings.
And this is the description on the archive page.
So having seen how custom post types works a little bit inside of this theme.
Let's take a look at what WordPress has about custom post types.
I just search for post types and I found this post types page.
And if you read this it gives you a little bit of detail about how to create those types in terms of
But there's an important piece of advice down here after the descriptions a word about custom postholes
as a plug in.
The thing about custom post types is that you're most likely going to create different types or categories
within your client's Web sites.
types system is built into the theme when they change their theme they're going to lose their customisations
and all their custom post types.
types as a plug in and instead of inside of the theme.
Now executive Frot is a little bit of an older theme that does define custom posed types within the
And if we wanted to create our own custom post types within any type of theme we can use a certain plug
There are some free plug in and there's also a premium plug in that I'll show you in this video.
up appearance themes inside of the student's sandbox you'll see the assortment of all of the pro studio
And there's one called Author pro and the author pro theme there.
And there's a custom post type and custom taxonomies built in to the author pro plugin which is associated
They've produced a plugin called Author pro plugin that can produce custom taxonomies as well as custom
However the author pro theme is the one that it was designed to work with first now inside my client's
I'm in the Wordpress dashboard under plug ins and you can see one of the first ones here that I have
If we look under WordPress dot org we can see that it's one of the plug ins in the plug in repository
Genesis author pro is designed to attractively display book details in single pages and archive pages.
And so there's a description of what it does here.
It creates a post-it custom post type called books and a library and it creates some different taxonomies
and it has some different display that it does on the Web site.
And I'll show you how that works.
Let's look at the Custom post type inside of the fun middle school plays WordPress dashboard.
And while it's normally called books I've done a text change here using the ultimate branding plugin
to change the word books to plays just because she writes plays scripts.
But it's the same thing there's a custom type called plays.
And let's look at that here.
I just clicked all place and she's got some.
All of these plays in here and it looks just like a post listing page or pages listing page but it's
Now there's some different taxonomies.
book's web site.
There is a play series or this would be the book series.
Now series is a hierarchical taxonomy just like categories if you can see down here Western melodrama.
This is one taxonomy or you could call it a category one play series and then these two trilogies sit
within this category.
If you look at the live Web site that I'm building and we look at the menus here under Uplay scripts
holiday plays there's Western melodramas and then there's two more subcategories or sub series under
If I just click the holiday place category which is a place series it will list all the players in the
Let's go back to the dashboard and we can look at authors as well.
Authors are also a hierarchical taxonomy built in to the author pro Plug-In And then there is just a
And there's also a separate tag's system built in to the posts post type which comes with wordpress
But these tags are separate.
And then there's also an archive setting's page just like we explored inside the executive profe theme.
some Lorem some text.
If I go to the plays archive page let's go back to the live site.
Now if I just click all play script that gives me that archive headline and this is the archive intro
Part of the library back in the Wordpress dashboard.
I just want to point out in this case because I'm using a plugin that controls these custom posed types
to I could change to a totally different Genesys theme and configure this Web site within a totally
And I will still have all of these custom prototypes and taxonomies available to me inside of the Web
One is a premium plug in that I use through WBM you Dev and it's called Custom press custom press plug
press is a very powerful custom post types plug in.
it into any theme using short codes as well as theme files for styling each custom post type.
If you go to WordPress dot org and the plug in directory or the plugin repository and search for custom
One of the top ones will be a very popular probably the best free custom post type plug in there is
by web dev studios the custom post type UI plug in.
Now their free version here isn't quite as powerful as the custom press plugin or as powerful as their
There's actually the custom post type extended costs I think $19 at this time and it gives you an easy
That's the power of this premium plug in from WPA udev.
It makes it easy for styling and fitting your custom post types into any theme.
In any case the custom pulse type UI is a great one to start with you can bring it in to your local
environment or into your life sites and play with creating custom post types for free using this plugin.
In this video you saw some different applications for custom post types in wordpress and we looked at
You also explored the custom taxonomies that can come along with a post type and learn the difference
Taxonomies I also introduced three options for a ACP or custom post type plug in the Genesis author
Don't worry we're not done with custom pulse types will be diving into them in detail in another chapter.
In the next lesson we'll begin to wrap up our corporate style website using the executive pro theme
by formatting the home page differently and configuring a blog archive page